# Getting-and-Cleaning-Data
## Overview
This README provides how the script(run_analysis.R) works.

## Datasource
Original data was downloaded from [Human Activity Recognition database ](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones).

### Files used to create tidy data
- 'features_info.txt': Shows information about the variables used on the feature vector.

- 'features.txt': List of all features.

- 'activity_labels.txt': Links the class labels with their activity name.

- 'train/X_train.txt': Training set.

- 'train/y_train.txt': Training labels.

- 'train/subject_train.txt': Each row identifies the subject who performed the activity for each window sample. Its range is from 1 to 30.

- 'test/X_test.txt': Test set.

- 'test/y_test.txt': Test labels.

- 'test/subject_test.txt': Each row identifies the subject who performed the activity for each window sample. Its range is from 1 to 30. 

## What run_analysis.R does
1. Read the following 3 files
  + 'train/X_train.txt': Training set.
  + 'train/y_train.txt': Training labels.
  + 'train/subject_train.txt': Each row identifies the subject who performed the activity for each window sample. Its range is from 1 to 30.
1. Combine 3 files column-wise using cbind() to create train data
1. Read the following 3 files
  + 'test/X_test.txt': Training set.
  + 'test/y_test.txt': Training labels.
  + 'test/subject_test.txt': Each row identifies the subject who performed the activity for each window sample. Its range is from 1 to 30.
1. Combine 3 files column-wise using cbind() to create test data
1. Conbine train data and test data row-wise using rbind() to create one dataset
1. Read 'features.txt' to obtain feature(column) names
1. Make syntactically valid column names using make.names()
1. Clean column names generated by step 7 using gsub()
  + Remove period(s) at the end of the column name
  + Remove successive periods in the middle of the column name
1. Assign column names
1. Read 'activity_labels.txt' to obtain the table that describe the link between class labels and their activity name
1. Merge the dataset and activity table (described in step 10) using dplyr::left_join() to assign activity names to each row
1. Create subsetted table using dplyr::select(). generated table contains following variables
  + subject(subject id)
  + activity name
  + mean() features
  + std() features
1. Group the table by subject and activity using dplyr::group_by()
1. Summarise the table to create tidy table with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject(using dplyr::summarise_each())
1. Create output file using write.table()
